Added RowBuilder widget documentation (#5206)
magento/devdocs: guides/v2.2/javascript-dev-guide/widgets/widget-row-builder.md

---
group: javascript-developer-guide

> subgroup: 3_Widgets

Reviewer: This metadata is no longer required and can be deleted.

title: RowBuilder widget
contributor_name: Atwix
contributor_link: https://www.atwix.com/
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: This heading is unnecessary. The first paragraph of a topic is generally accepted to be the overview.

The RowBuilder [widget](https://glossary.magento.com/widget/) allows you to build a container with rows.

The RowBuilder widget can be used only on the frontend area.

> The RowBuilder widget source is [lib/web/mage/row-builder.js].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RowBuilder widget source is [lib/web/mage/row-builder.js][].
```

## Initialize the RowBuilder widget

For information about how to initialize a widget in a JS component or `.phtml` template, see the [Initialize JavaScript][] topic.

The RowBuilder widget is instantiated with:

```javascript
$("#row-builder").rowBuilder({
    "rowTemplate":"#row-template",
    "rowContainer":"#row-container",
    "rowParentElem":"<div></div>",
    "remEventSelector":"a",
    "btnRemoveSelector":".action.remove",
    "maxRows":"5"
});``
```

Where:

- `#row-builder` is the selector of the element which will be the RowBuilder.

> Phtml template file examples using script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a PHTML file using the script:
```

-  [rowParentElem](#rowparentelem)
-  [rowContainerClass](#rowcontainerclass)
-  [addRowBtn](#addrowbtn)
-  [btnRemoveIdPrefix](#btnremoveidprefix)
-  [btnRemoveSelector](#btnremoveselector)
-  [rowIdPrefix](#rowidprefix)
-  [additionalRowClass](#additionalrowclass)
-  [addEventSelector](#addeventselector)
-  [remEventSelector](#remeventselector)
-  [hideFirstRowAddSeparator](#hidefirstrowaddseparator)
-  [maxRows](#maxrows)
-  [maxRowsMsg](#maxrowsmsg)

### `rowTemplate`

The row template selector.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'#template-registrant'`

### `rowContainer`

The row container selector.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'#registrant-container'`

### `rowIndex`

Row index used by the template rows.

**Type**: Integer

**Default value**: `0`

### `rowCount`

Row count.

**Type**: Integer

**Default value**: `0`

### `rowParentElem`

Row parent element.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'<li></li>'`

### `rowContainerClass`

Row container class.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'fields'`

### `addRowBtn`

The add row button selector.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'#add-registrant-button'`

### `btnRemoveIdPrefix`

> Id prefix of a remove button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ID prefix of a remove button.
```

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'btn-remove'`

### `btnRemoveSelector`

The remove button selector.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'.btn-remove'`

### `rowIdPrefix`

> Id prefix of a row element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ID prefix of a row element.
```

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'row'`

### `additionalRowClass`

> The additional row class is added to rows added after the first one.

Reviewer 2: Please, adjust 

```suggestion
The additional row class name which is added after the main class name.
```

Author: Adjusted.

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'add-row'`

### `addEventSelector`

> Default selectors for add element of a template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default selectors for adding elements to a template.
```

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'button'`

### `remEventSelector`

> Default selectors for remove markup elements of a template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default selectors for removing markup elements from a template.
```

**Type**: String

**Default value**: `'a'`

### `hideFirstRowAddSeparator`

> This option allows adding first row delete option and a row separator.

Reviewer 2: Please, adjust this explanation. Technically, if we split the purpose of this option into parts:
- allows adding first row delete option
- allows adding a row separator

This explanation confuses a little bit. So we need to simplify it slightly. 

Thank you.

Author: @rogyar thank you for noticing it.
I've adjusted the explanation of the **hideFirstRowAddSeparator** option.
This option allows removing the additional row class and remove link for the first row.
Source code: https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.2/app/code/Magento/Theme/view/frontend/web/js/row-builder.js#L151
https://github.com/magento/magento2/blob/2.3/app/code/Magento/Theme/view/frontend/web/js/row-builder.js#L151

**Type**: Boolean

**Default value**: `true`

### `maxRows`

Max number of rows.

**Type**: Integer

**Default value**: `1000`

### `maxRowsMsg`

> The message selector of an element which appears when the max number of rows has exceeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The message selector of an element which appears when the max number of rows has been exceeded.
```

**Type**: Integer

**Default value**: `1000`

## Code sample

> This example shows the row builder container which adds new row when you click on the *Add Item* button and removes a row when you click on a *Remove Item* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows the row builder container, which adds a new row when you click the **Add Item** button and removes a row when you click the **Remove Item** button.
```
